# Viewing cellular complexes

## Introduction

Visualization of geometric and/or topological data is a must for a project that concerns geometric modeling, numerical simulations, and/or graphics rendering of simulation results. The `LARVIEW.jl` package provides visualization services to `LARLIB.jl`, the julia ongoing implementation of the *LAR (Linear Algebraic Representation)* scheme for solid and geometric modeling, well-based on linear algebra and algebraic concepts of *cellular* and *chain complexes*.  

`LARLIB` is implemented using only *dense* and *sparse arrays*, and without need of fancy complicated data structures that are usual for *non-manifold solid modeling*. LAR has a large semantic coverage,  including geometric and topological modeling, domain modeling for physical simulations, geographical mapping, computer graphics, computer vision and robotics.

Visualization of data structures generated by the Julia package [*`LARLIB`*](https://github.com/cvdlab/LARLIB.jl) are currently produced by making use of the Python package [*`pyplasm`*](https://github.com/plasm-language/pyplasm), the current implementation of the geometric language [`PLaSM`]() (Programming LAnguage for Solid Modeling). See the Wiley's book 
[*Geometric Programming for Computer-Aided Design*]
(https://www.amazon.com/Geometric-Programming-Computer-Aided-Design/dp/0471899429) for more information.



## Types for data and viewing operations

#### Points

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure.
Dense `Matrix` ``M\times N`` to store the position of *vertices* (0-cells)
of a *cellular complex*. The number of rows ``M`` is the dimension 
of the embedding space. The number of columns ``N`` is the number of 0-cells.

#### Cells

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure.
Dense `Array` of `Array` to store the indices of vertices of `P-cells`
of a cellular complex. 
The linear space of `P-chains` is generated by `Cells` as a basis.
Simplicial `P-chains` have `P+1` vertex indices for `cell` element in `Cells` array.
Cuboidal `P-chains` have ``2^P`` vertex indices for `cell` element in `Cells` array.
Other types of chain spaces may have different numbers of vertex indices for `cell` 
element in `Cells` array.

#### Chain

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure.
Binary `SparseVector` to store the coordinates of a `chain` of `N-cells`. It is
`nnz=1` with `value=1` for the coordinates of an *elementary N-chain*, constituted by 
a single *N-chain*.

#### ChainOp

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure. 
`SparseMatrix` in *Compressed Sparse Column* format, contains the coordinate 
representation of an operator between linear spaces of `P-chains`. 
Operators ``P-Boundary : P-Chain -> (P-1)-Chain``
and ``P-Coboundary : P-Chain -> (P+1)-Chain`` are typically stored as 
`ChainOp` with elements in ``\{-1,0,1\}`` or in ``\{0,1\}``, for 
*signed* and *unsigned* operators, respectively.

#### ChainComplex
	
Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure. It is a 
1-dimensional `Array` of `ChainOp` that provides storage for either the 
*chain of boundaries* (from `D` to `0`) or the transposed *chain of coboundaries* 
(from `0` to `D`), with `D` the dimension of the embedding space, which may be either 
``\R^2`` or ``\R^3``.

#### LAR_Model

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure.
`LAR_Model` is a pair (*Geometry*, *Topology*), where *Geometry* is stored as 
`Points`, and *Topology* is stored as `Array` of `Cells`. The number of `Cells` 
values may vary from `1` to `N+1`.

#### LAR

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure.
`LAR_Model` is a pair (*Geometry*, *Topology*), where *Geometry* is stored as 
`Points`, and *Topology* as`Cells`. 

#### Hpc

Alias declation of LAR-specific data structure. 
`Hpc` stands for *Hierarchical Polyhedral Complex* and is the geometric data structure 
used by `PLaSM` (Programming LAnguage for Solid Modeling). See the Wiley's book 
[*Geometric Programming for Computer-Aided Design*]
(https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/book/10.1002/0470013885) and its 
current `Python` library [*https://github.com/plasm-language/pyplasm*]
(https://github.com/plasm-language/pyplasm).


## List of currently available primitives

The functions of the package can be classified in three subsets.   

The first group contains functions to return *Python lists* of either `Cells` or `Points`, according to the `pyplasm` semantics;

	cells2py(cells::Cells)::PyObject

	points2py(V::Points)::PyObject

	mkpol(verts::Points, cells::Cells)::Hpc

The second one is the set of *method implementations* for the `view` function, that either directly displays a `Hpc` object, or generates and *displays* this argument starting from different combinations of `LARVIEW` and `LARLIB` types;

	view(hpc::Hpc)

	view(V::Points, CV::Cells)

	view(model::LAR_Model)

	view(pair::Tuple{Points,Cells})
	
The third group generates an `Hpc` object, to be subsequently displayed by some `view` call.

	hpc_exploded( model::LAR_Model)(sx=1.2, sy=1.2, sz=1.2)::Hpc

	lar2hpc(V::Points, CV::Cells)::Hpc

	lar2hpc(model::LAR_Model)::Hpc

	lar2exploded_hpc(V::Points,CV::Cells)::Hpc

Another set of methods will be dedicated to *display cell indices* of various cell complexes, using different *colors* for each `Cells` object, but it was not yet been ported to *Julia*.


## Examples


## Main Interface

```@docs
LARVIEW.larview
```
